##### Windows Password Hashes

Windows OS stores hashed user account passwords locally in the SAM (Security Accounts Manager) database.

Authentication and verification of user credentials is facilitated by the Local Security Authority (LSA).

Windows versions up to Windows Server 2003 utilize two different types of hashes:
	- LM
	- NTLM

Windows disables LM hashing and ulitizes NTLM hashing from Windows Vista onwards. 

SAM (Security Account Manager) database file cannot be copied while the operating system is running. The Windows NT kernel keeps the SAM database file locked and as a result, attackers typically utilize in-memory techniques and tools to dump SAM hashes from the LSASS process. In modern versions of Windows, the SAM database is encrypted with a syskey.

- LM (LanMan) is the default hashing algorithm that was implemented in Windows operating systems prior to NT4.0.
- The protocol is used to hash user passwords, and the hashing process can be broken down into the following steps:
	- The password is broken into two seven-character chunks
	- All characters are then converted into uppercase
	- Each chunk is then hashed separately with the DES algorithm

- NTLM (NTHas) is a collection of authentication protocols that are utilized in Windows to facilitate authentication between computers. The authentication process involves using a valid username and password to authenticate successfully.
- When a user accout is created, it is encrypted using the MD4 hashing algorithm, while the original password is displsed of.
- NTLM improves upon LM in the following ways:
	- Does not split the hash in to two chunks
	- Case sensitive
	- Allows the use of symbols and unicode characters